>> Jafar Husain: So this was a real
problem we had to solve at Netflix and for
a while, it took a long time so you
shouldn't expect that you're gonna just
fix and be able to solve this problem.
I like it cuz it's a really hard one and
we can start to think and learn about
how we can solve seemingly hard problems
by just composing operations together.
So how do we go from this to this?
So in general when you're problem solving,
when you're solving problems with
observable the first thing you do is you
think to yourself, what streams do I have?
What sources of data do I have?
What event streams do I have?
Well, in this case we've got one,
it's pretty straightforward right, tasks.
And then you think, well, what do I want?
In this case we think,
well I want this stream that tells me
whether animations are allowed or not.
And then, the last step is to figure
out how to get from what you have,
in terms of streams, to what you want
by using the functions that you guys
have learned in the previous class,
map, filter, reduce, merge, zip.
Once you've finally created that
stream of data that you want,
the last step is to just subscribe to it,
and use the data, all right?
Does that make sense?
So when you're going from this,
to this, you're doing it lazily.
You're just creating a new stream
that hasn't really done any work,
and only when you've got exactly
the stream that you want,
do you subscribe to it and
you get the data out.
And that's the last step, so my last
step I would do something like this.
>> Jafar Husain: And then I might
set some global flag for example.
>> Jafar Husain: Then later on in the
program, whenever I'm about to start up
an animation, I would look at this global
flag, for example, and I would say,
should I just place this where it's gonna
be or should I animate it smoothly?
Does that make sense?
So our task is to go from this to this.
And we're gonna do it gradually,
little bit by little bit.
So does anybody have any suggestions?
Actually, before we jump into how we're
gonna do this, I'm gonna give you guys
some helpful functions which we
can use during this process.
So let's have a quick
look at these functions.
The first one is just a factory function.
It takes on a raw value,
it puts it into an observable that just
unnecks that value and then completes.
That's it.
So we see that.
So I'll clear how to take a simple value
and make it into an observable of that
value, not unlike putting two
square brackets around a value and
making it an array of that value.
Then we have concat.
Concat you can take two arbitrary
observables [SOUND], stick them together,
just like a string where you're
concatenating two strings together, and,
by the way, you can pass comcat
as many observables as you want.
So then this would go like that.
Does that make sense?
So I can concatenate as many
observables together as I want.
And this is a helpful little function,
which we'll use later,
distinctUntilChanged.
I think this pretty much says it all.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question
about concat.
So the way you have it represented,
I assume the dots are over time.
So is it that
looking at it visually that you have
them stacked on top of each other?
>> Jafar Husain: RIght.
>> Speaker 2: I would assume that
two would happen first and then you
would have two fives and then a four,
a seven, and a nine.
And the way that you represent it there,
it's like one completes then
the other one iterates,
then that completes, and then the third-
>> Jafar Husain: Great question, and
the reason for that is I'm gonna
assume that all the observables,
all these observables in this
example anyway, are culled.
So they're a lot like the set timeout
observable that we created initially,
which means time's not gonna start
counting until you subscribe.
So just like we didn't kick off the set
timeout until you subscribe, we can assume
the data in these observables isn't gonna
start being produced until you subscribe.
And that's why instead of falling down and
all happening simultaneously
they all happen back to back.
So the way the concat works, and actually
maybe this is a good opportunity for
us to try out, to actually write concat
to understand how it works in our
observable implementation, is that all it
does is it subscribes to an observable,
and when that observable completes,
it subscribes to the next observable.
And when that observable completes,
Do you guys wanna write that?
Or do you feel like you've
got a good handle on it?
Quick show of hands,
who wants to write it?
Who feels like they've
got a good handle on it?
>> Speaker 2: Write it.
>> Jafar Husain: Write it.
All right, okay.
>> Jafar Husain: So
it's a static method, right?
And we're gonna take
a bunch of observables and
we're gonna return a new observable.
So I don't think I've ever
written this operator, so
this is gonna be a,
we're gonna do it live, it's gonna be fun.
>> Jafar Husain: All right, [LAUGH] well,
one thing I could do is I could
loop over all the observable and
subscribe to them, right?
I can do this,
>> Jafar Husain: Is this gonna work?
No, yes?
>> Speaker 2: You're not waiting.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm not waiting, right?
In this way I'd subscribe to all
three of them at the same time, and
then they'd all kind of be flinging
data at me at the same time.
I don't want to do that.
So how am I going to do it?
>> Speaker 2: Use a reduce function.
But-
>> Jafar Husain: A reduce.
>> Speaker 2: You take your a and your b,
and then once a completes you run b?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
I like where you're going there,
we can probably do this with a reduce,
yeah.
The reduce,
reduce might be a little tricky.
We definitely need some asynchrony
in here, because we need to wait
until the complete method is called
before we jump to the new one.
So what I'll do is here I'm going to
use a lot of state here actually.
I'm going to keep track of how many
observables I have on any given moment.
I'm going to have an array of them,
and I'm going to keep removing them.
Does that make sense?
So we'll try just popping it off.
We'll try, there might actually
be a better way of doing this,
but this is my best guess at the moment.
>> Speaker 2: Would you want
to shift instead of pop?
>> Jafar Husain: Shift would be better,
thank you, yes.
That's absolutely right.
I wanna pull it off the front and
not off the top.
So as soon as somebody
forages I want to try and
shift and call the observable and
subscribe to it.
I wanna get a value out of the current
observable what am I gonna do here?
So at the moment I've picked the first
observable off the front of the array,
I've subscribed to it, and
when I get a value, what do I want to do?
>> Speaker 2: Observer.next?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
I want to send it to my observer, right?
So I'm gonna call observer.next.
And I need to also handle errors.
So if I get an error, what am I gonna do?
Okay, if any of these five or three
observables where I'm kind of contanonate
errors together, what do I want to do?
>> Speaker 2: Pass along the error?
>> Jafar Husain: Pass along the error,
yeah absolutely.
>> Jafar Husain: Now what
happens if it completes?
So I'm not doing something I should be
doing here, which is unsubscribing from
the observable, so,
>> Jafar Husain: Sees
that error I wanna unsubscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: And I'm actually
not gonna make this a constant,
I'm gonna make it a let,
cuz I might change it over time.
Now what happens when this
observable completes?
>> Speaker 2: Get the next observable.
>> Jafar Husain: You get the next one,
okay.
I could get the next one.
But in theory, I could sort of,
[LAUGH] I could copy this whole thing and
I could put it in here, right?
>> Jafar Husain: All right?
That's kinda what I wanna do almost,
when this completes,
I want it to start this all over again.
Does everybody see what's
happening when it completes and
I want it do the same thing again?
How do I avoid copying and
pasting this code?
>> Speaker 2: Putting it into a function?
>> Jafar Husain: Put it into a function.
And then I'm gonna call that
function recursively, all right?
>> Jafar Husain: So
I'm gonna create a function right in here.
>> Jafar Husain: And, actually gonna put
this out here, I think it might be useful.
I shouldn't leave it in there for now.
And here, now I can call
processObservable recursively, right?